# bike-share-sim-nugget

This project is all about simulation and optimization. Here we're pulling data for over 1.5 million journeys accross 700+ docking stations in London's bike share network and asking two simple questions: 
1) How can we estimate the number of bad experiences occuring for customers?
2) How can we optimize this system?

In order to answer these questions, we first need to define what we mean by bad experiences. Bad experiences come in two forms - either a customer tries to rent a bike at a station which is empty, or tries to return a bike at a station which is full. Whether either one of these things happens is in turn a function of docking station inventory,     capacity, and random demand at each station over a given period of time. In more formal terms, we can concieve of our task as modeling the random variables of customers arriving and departing from stations with fixed capacity (a constriant of this problem). If we do this correctly, we can estimate the expected values for bad experiences at each station for each period of time, based on inventory levels (our decision variable). This is easy to accomplish through stochastic simulation. By iterating over all the possibilities, we can determine what the optimal inventory levels are for each station at the start of each defined period of time. We can also establish the cost of various sub-optimal inventory levels in terms of customer experience.

Modeling Note: Random arrivals and departures over a given period of time can be modeled using the same queuing theory technique that call centers use to optimize staffing levels. Here we simply need to determine the arrival rates for individuals renting and returning bikes at each station for each period of time. This number is also known as Lambda in the Poisson distribution. By randomly sampling from a Poisson distribution with Lambda set equal to the aforementioned arrival rates, we can accurately model the randomness of interactions at these stations. Doing this many thousands of times for each station yields our expected values for bad experiences.
